# Pairing of ordinary chondrites

This project is a model using a probabilistic approach to estimate the pairing between ordianry chondrites based on the model developepd by Hutzler et al. (2016) doi:  https://doi.org/10.1111/maps.12607

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Example notebook](#examplenb)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)
- [Contact](#contact)

## Introduction
Meteoroids often undergo fragmentation during their atmospheric entry, resulting in the fall of multiple stones. Moreover, individual stones may fragment on the Earth’s surface due to alteration processes. Consequently, multiple fragments from the same meteorite are often found scattered within a geographical area called strewnfield. In dense collection areas, pairing these fragments is challenging and time-consuming in terms of data acquisition. However, pairing assessment remains extremely important in any study involving a large meteorite collection, as it can reduce statistical bias and prevent duplicate laboratory analyses (Scott, 1984). Pairing is crucial mostly for equilibrated ordinary chondrites, which are the most abundant types of meteorites.
In our case, out of 455 meteorites > 20 g, 439 are ordinary chondrites, leading to a staggering 96,141 different possible pairs, making it unrealistic to check each pair of meteorites individually. For these reasons, we decided to tackle the pairing problem using a probability approach with a model similar to that developed by Benoit et al. (2000) and Hutzler et al. (2016). This model can be used for a quick pairing assessment of a large number of meteorites. We modified the model to suit our collection and search area. 
Among the main criteria used in the literature for ordinary chondrites pairing (Benoit et al., 2000; Schlüter et al., 2002), our pairing code incorporates the petrographic type (Van Schmus & Wood, 1967), the weathering grade (Wlotzka, 1993), the fayalite content of olivine, the ferrosilite content of low-Ca pyroxene, the magnetic susceptibility, and the distance between stones. We consider that two meteorites from different groups cannot be paired, so we separated H, L, and LL chondrites. We also assume that unequilibrated ordinary chondrites of type 3 cannot be paired with equilibrated chondrites. 
The pairing code was used only for ordinary chondrites, since in our collection other groups are rare enough for their pairing to be assessed by checking all possible pairs based on the above-mentioned criteria and petrographic observations. The number of type 3 ordinary chondrites is low enough that whenever pairing was suggested by the pairing code, we checked the possible pairs individually using additional criteria: percentage mean deviation of the fayalite content of olivine, average chondrule size, and other petrographic features (presence of shock veins, melt pockets, polycrystalline troilite, texture of inter-chondrule matrix).
The pairing code calculates a factor P which reflects the likelihood of two meteorites being paired, using the following equation:
P = (Πipiwi ) 1 / ∑wi
Here, pi is the probability of pairing for two meteorites for the given criterion i, and wi is the weight assigned for each criterion i. Given that some criteria are more robust than others, a different weight was assigned to each (Table 2). Magnetic susceptibility, petrographic type, fayalite content of olivine, and ferrosilite content of low-Ca pyroxene were given a weight of 2, while distance, and weathering grade were given a weight of 1. Missing criteria were assigned a weight of zero for mathematical homogeneity. P is not a probability hence we use the term factor for mathematical correctness. To invalidate the pairing between two meteorites, it only takes one single criterion being invalid. For this, the weighted geometric mean is a suitable approach for combining probabilities from different criteria when each criterion has a different level of importance (weight). If any of the criteria suggests a very low probability (close to zero), it will significantly impact the overall pairing factor P, potentially invalidating the pairing. In the weighted geometric mean, each value is raised to the power of its assigned weight. It provides a value that involves the whole dataset, giving more weight to the criteria judged more important. Additionally, each criterion was assigned a probability function. For the weathering grade, petrographic type, and inter-meteorite distance, we applied a discrete function. Magnetic susceptibility, fayalite content, and ferrosilite content probability functions follow a Gaussian distribution, whose standard deviations are listed in Table 2. Therefore, for these properties, the factor pi can be computed as the probability that two measurements of a given properties for two meteorites (xA and xB) are from the Gaussian distribution with a standard deviation 𝜎 and a mean value of (xA+xB)/2:
p=e^(-〖(((xA-xB))/2σ)〗^2 )
Ordinary chondrite groups have specific ranges of magnetic susceptibility (Rochette et al., 2003, Rochette et al., 2012). We chose the parameter 𝜎 of the magnetic susceptibility in the pairing code based on the intra-meteorite standard deviation of magnetic susceptibility measured in OC falls and finds (Table 1). We use a conservative standard deviation of 0.10 for all ordinary chondrite groups. 
